In this video I'll demonstrate how to verify the network configuration of a virtual machine.
So here I've clicked on my Wii motion demo virtual machine and I want to configure and I'm going to
edit the virtual machine hardware and let's take a look at the virtual network interface card associated
with this VM.
So here we see network adapter one and the first setting that we're concerned with is what virtual machine
port group.
Are you going to connect this VM to have connected it to a port group called 199 and that poor group
has specific villans settings.
It's got security policies associated with it.
It might have things like traffic shaping configured.
So I'll pick the network adapter.
I want to connect the virtual machine to and I'll choose the status right.
Basically is this network adapter plugged in right now or not.
And then I'll choose the adapter type.
Right.
So in this scenario I've chosen and easy one thousand virtual network interface card and the MAC address
is assigned automatically.
Now I might not want to use that e 1000 virtual network interface card as a matter of fact.
There is actually a type of virtual neck that outperforms the 1000.
Now it won't give you a huge performance impact on your virtual machine itself.
But if you use the VM X net three virtual NEC it can actually help the performance of your YES X I host
by using less resources so I can't change this on my existing network adapter but I could come in here
create a new network adapter choose the VM X net three virtual neck type and go ahead and create a second
virtual Nic on this VM.
And that I could potentially move my IP address over to that new virtual Mac after the fact of course
I would be service impacting But that's an option.
I could also choose single route IO virtualization and basically eliminate the virtualization overhead
for this virtual machine.
When it comes to networking this is a very unusual configuration though.
So basically with our VI you're giving this virtual machine dedicated access to a physical Nic.
I don't really want to do that so I'm just going to leave this as is and I'm going to hit OK.
And you can see there I can just go ahead and add additional network interface cards on the fly.
I can do this while the VM is powered on.
I can do it while it's powered off.
Right but right now the VM is powered off.
So my second virtual neck is currently disconnected.
And if I want to get rid of it later on this is a little tricky.
You come in here to the hardware screen and over to the far right you'll see this X where you can actually
remove virtual hardware that will turn red.
Then I go ahead and hit OK and it'll get removed.
So those are the key networking settings for a virtual machine that we're going to configure here.
There's really not a whole lot else that we need to worry about setting up.